---
title: ยง 18 Dominance
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-14T08:02:32.786Z
tags: 
---

(1) A company is dominant on the market, insofar as it is a supplier or customer of a certain type of goods or commercial services on the relevant product and geographic market
1. without competitors,
1. is not exposed to significant competition or
1. has an outstanding market position in relation to its competitors.

(2) The relevant geographic market may be wider than the scope of this law.
(2a) The assumption of a market does not prevent a service from being provided free of charge.
(3) When assessing the market position of a company in relation to its competitors, the following must be taken into account in particular:
1. his market share,
1. its financial strength,
1. its access to the procurement or sales markets,
1. Links with other companies,
1. legal or factual barriers to market entry for other companies,
1. actual or potential competition from companies located within or outside the scope of this Act,
1. the ability to switch its supply or demand to other goods or commercial services, and
1. the possibility of the other side of the market to switch to other companies.

(3a) Especially in the case of multi-sided markets and networks, the following should also be taken into account when evaluating a company's market position:
1. direct and indirect network effects,
1. the parallel use of several services and the switching effort for the users,
1. its economies of scale in connection with network effects,
1. its access to competitive data,
1. innovation-driven competitive pressure.

(4) It is assumed that a company is dominant if it has a market share of at least 40 percent.
(5) Two or more companies are dominant, to the extent
1. there is no substantial competition between them for a certain type of goods or commercial services and
1. in their entirety they meet the requirements of paragraph 1.

(6) A group of companies is considered dominant if they
1. consists of three or fewer companies that together have a market share of 50 percent, or
1. consists of five or fewer companies that together have a market share of two thirds.

(7) The presumption of paragraph 6 can be refuted if the companies prove that
1. the conditions of competition between them suggest substantial competition, or
1. the entirety of the companies has no outstanding market position in relation to the other competitors.

(8) The Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy reports to the legislative bodies on the experience with the regulations three years after the regulations in paragraphs 2a and 3a come into force.