---
title: ยง 38 Calculation of sales, market shares and the value of the consideration
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-14T08:26:22.971Z
tags: 
---

(1) Section 277 (1) of the German Commercial Code applies to the determination of sales. Sales revenues from deliveries and services between affiliated companies (internal sales revenues) and excise duties are not taken into account.
(2) Only three quarters of sales are to be recognized for trade in goods.
(3) For the publishing, the production and the distribution of newspapers, magazines and their components as well as for the production, the distribution and the organization of radio programs and the sales of radio advertising times, eight times the sales is to be recognized.
(4) In place of sales, credit institutions, financial institutions, building societies and external capital management companies within the meaning of section 17 (2) number 1 of the German Investment Code are replaced by the total amount in section 34 (2) sentence 1 number 1 letter a to e of the credit institution accounting regulation Income in the applicable version less sales tax and other taxes levied directly on this income. For insurance companies, the premium income of the last closed financial year is decisive. Premium income is the income from the primary insurance and reinsurance business including the reinsured shares.
(4a) The consideration according to ยง 35 paragraph 1a includes
1. all assets and other pecuniary benefits that the seller receives from the purchaser in connection with the merger in accordance with section 37 (1) (purchase price) and
2. the value of any liabilities assumed by the purchaser.

(5) If a merger is brought about by the acquisition of parts of one or more companies, irrespective of whether these parts have their own legal personality, only the turnover or market share attributable to the sold parts must be taken into account on the part of the seller. This does not apply if the seller remains in control within the meaning of Section 37 (1) number 2 or 25 percent or more of the shares. Two or more acquisitions within the meaning of sentence 1, which are carried out between the same person or company within two years, are treated as a single amalgamation if they reach the sales thresholds of ยง 35 paragraph 1 for the first time or if they meet the requirements of ยง 35 paragraph 1a become; the last acquisition is considered to be the time of the merger.