---
title: § 42 Ministerial license 
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-14T08:31:14.856Z
tags: 
---

(1) Upon request, the Federal Minister of Economics and Energy grants permission for a merger prohibited by the Federal Cartel Office if, in individual cases, the restriction of competition is outweighed by the economic benefits of the merger or if the merger is justified by an overriding public interest. The competitiveness of the companies involved in markets outside the scope of this Act must also be taken into account. The permit may only be granted if the extent of the restriction of competition does not endanger the market economy. If the decision deviates from the vote of the opinion that the monopoly commission has drawn up in accordance with paragraph 5 sentence 1, this must be justified separately in the decision.
(2) The permit can be combined with conditions and requirements. Section 40 subsection 3 sentence 2 and subsection 3a apply accordingly.
(3) The application must be submitted in writing to the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy within a period of one month after notification of the prohibition or a resolution order pursuant to Section 41 (3) sentence 1. If the prohibition is challenged, the period begins when the prohibition becomes final. If the dissolution order is challenged pursuant to Section 41 (3) sentence 1, the period begins when the dissolution order becomes uncontestable.
(4) The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Energy should decide on the application within four months. If the decision is not made within this period, the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy shall immediately inform the German Bundestag of the reasons for this. If the application is not delivered to the applicant companies within six months of receipt of the full application, the application for the ministerial license is deemed to have been rejected. The Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy can extend the deadline in accordance with sentence 3 at the request of the applicant companies by up to two months. In this case, sentence 3 does not apply and the order must be sent to the applicant company within the period specified in sentence 4.
(5) Before the decision in accordance with paragraph 4 sentence 1, an opinion of the monopoly commission is to be obtained and the highest state authorities, in whose territory the participating companies are based, to be given the opportunity to comment. In the case of an application for permission from a prohibited association in the area of ​​nationwide distribution of television programs by private broadcasters, an additional opinion of the commission regarding the determination of the concentration in the media area must be obtained. The Monopoly Commission is to deliver its opinion within two months of being requested by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy.
(6) The Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy issues guidelines on the implementation of the procedure.