---
title: ยง 1 scope 
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-13T22:23:04.302Z
tags: 
---

(1) This Act applies to all electronic information and communication services, unless they are telecommunication services according to ยง 3 No. 24 of the Telecommunications Act, which consist entirely in the transmission of signals via telecommunication networks, telecommunications-based services according to ยง 3 No. 25 of the Telecommunications Act or broadcasting according to ยง 2 of the Interstate Broadcasting Treaty are (telemedia). This law applies to all providers, including public bodies, regardless of whether a fee is charged for the use.
(2) This law does not apply to taxation.
(3) The Telecommunications Act and the Press Act remain unaffected.
(4) The special requirements for the content of telemedia result from the State Treaty for Broadcasting and Telemedia (State Broadcasting Treaty).
(5) This Act does not regulate private international law nor does it regulate the jurisdiction of the courts.
(6) The special provisions of this Act for Audiovisual Media Services on Demand do not apply to services that
1. are intended for reception in third countries only and
2. not directly or indirectly from the general public with commercially available consumer terminals in a country within the scope of Council Directive 89/552 / EEC of 3 October 1989 on the coordination of certain legal and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the exercise of television (OJ L 298, 17.10.1989, p. 23), which was last amended by Directive 2007/65 / EC (OJ L 332, 18.12.2007, p. 27).