---
title: ยง 13 obligations of the service provider 
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-13T22:53:19.519Z
tags: 
---

(1) At the beginning of the usage process, the service provider has to inform the user about the type, scope and purpose of the collection and use of personal data and the processing of his data in countries outside the scope of Directive 95/46 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of natural persons in the processing of personal data and on the free movement of data (OJ EC No. L 281 p. 31) in a generally understandable form, unless such information has already been given. In the case of an automated process that enables the user to be identified later and prepares for the collection or use of personal data, the user must be informed at the beginning of this process. The content of the information must be available to the user at all times.
(2) The consent can be declared electronically if the service provider ensures that
1. the user has given his consent consciously and clearly,
1. the consent is logged,
1. the user can access the content of the consent at any time and
1. the user can withdraw their consent at any time with future effect.

(3) The service provider must inform the user of the right under paragraph 2 number 4 before declaring consent. Paragraph 1, sentence 3 applies accordingly.
(4) The service provider must ensure through technical and organizational measures that
1. the user can stop using the service at any time,
1. the personal data arising from the expiry of the access or other use is deleted immediately after its termination or blocked in the cases of sentence 2,
1. the user can make use of telemedia protected against knowledge of third parties,
1. the personal data on the use of different telemedia can be used separately by the same user,
1. Data according to ยง 15 paragraph 2 can only be merged for billing purposes and
1. Usage profiles according to ยง 15 paragraph 3 cannot be merged with information on the identification of the bearer of the pseudonym.
1. The deletion in accordance with sentence 1 number 2 will be blocked if deletion is contrary to legal, statutory or contractual retention periods.

(5) The transfer to another service provider must be reported to the user.
(6) The service provider must enable the use of telemedia and their payment anonymously or under a pseudonym, insofar as this is technically possible and reasonable. The user must be informed about this possibility.
(7) To the extent that this is technically possible and economically reasonable, service providers must ensure, within the scope of their respective responsibility for commercially offered telemedia, that technical and organizational measures are taken to ensure that
1. no unauthorized access to the technical facilities used for their telemedia offers is possible and
1. this
		1. against violations of the protection of personal data and
		2. against disturbances, also if they are caused by external attacks,
    
are secured. Precautions according to sentence 1 must take into account the state of the art. One measure according to sentence 1 is in particular the use of an encryption method recognized as secure.
(8) The service provider must provide the user with information on the data stored about himself or his pseudonym in accordance with Section 34 of the Federal Data Protection Act. The information can also be provided electronically at the user's request.