---
title: ยง 14 inventory data
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-13T22:54:20.230Z
tags: 
---

(1) The service provider may only collect and use personal data of a user insofar as they are necessary for the establishment, content or modification of a contractual relationship between the service provider and the user regarding the use of telemedia (inventory data).
(2) At the order of the competent authorities, the service provider may provide information on inventory data in individual cases, insofar as this is for the purposes of criminal prosecution, security by the police authorities of the federal states, the fulfillment of the legal duties of the customs administration authorities and the authorities responsible under state law for perception their examination tasks in accordance with ยง 2 paragraphs 1 and 3 of the Illegal Labor Control Act and for the prevention and prosecution of related crimes and administrative offenses and for the fulfillment of the statutory tasks of the constitutional protection authorities of the federal and state governments, the federal intelligence service or the military screening service or the Federal Criminal Police Office as part of its task Countering the dangers of international terrorism or enforcing intellectual property rights is required.
(3) The service provider may also provide information in individual cases about existing data held by him, insofar as this is necessary for the enforcement of civil law claims due to the violation of absolutely protected rights due to illegal content, which are covered by ยง 1 paragraph 3 of the Network Enforcement Act.
(4) For the provision of information in accordance with paragraph 3, a prior judicial order regarding the admissibility of the provision of information is required, which the injured party must apply for. The district court is responsible for issuing this order regardless of the amount in dispute. The local court is the court in whose district the injured resides, has its registered office or has a branch. The decision is made by the civil chamber. For the procedure, the provisions of the Act on the Procedure in Family Matters and in Matters of Voluntary Jurisdiction apply accordingly. The injured party bears the costs of the judicial order. The appeal against the decision of the regional court is admissible.
(5) The service provider is to be involved as a party to the procedure under paragraph 4. He may inform the user of the initiation of the procedure.