---
title: ยง 15 usage data 
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-13T22:55:39.045Z
tags: 
---

(1) The service provider may only collect and use a user's personal data insofar as this is necessary to enable and bill for the use of telemedia (usage data). Usage data is special
1. Features to identify the user,
2. Information about the start and end as well as the scope of the respective use and
3. Information about the telemedia used by the user.

(2) The service provider may combine usage data of a user through the use of different telemedia, insofar as this is necessary for billing purposes with the user.
(3) The service provider may create user profiles when using pseudonyms for the purposes of advertising, market research or to design the telemedia as required, provided that the user does not object to this. The service provider must inform the user of his right to object within the scope of the information in accordance with Section 13 (1). These usage profiles may not be combined with data about the bearer of the pseudonym.
(4) The service provider may use usage data beyond the end of the usage process insofar as they are necessary for the purposes of billing with the user (billing data). The service provider may block the data in order to comply with existing statutory, statutory or contractual retention periods.
(5) The service provider may transmit accounting data to other service providers or third parties, insofar as this is necessary for determining the fee and for billing with the user. If the service provider has concluded a contract for collecting the fee with a third party, he may transmit billing data to this third party if this is necessary for this purpose. Anonymous usage data may be transmitted for the purpose of market research by other service providers. Section 14 subsections 2 to 5 apply accordingly.
(6) The provider, time, duration, type, content and frequency of certain telemedia used by a user may not be shown on the invoice for the use of telemedia, unless the user requests individual proof.
(7) The service provider may save billing data that is processed for the creation of individual evidence of the use of certain offers at the request of the user, at most until the end of the sixth month after sending the invoice. If objections are raised against the payment claim within this period or these are not paid despite the payment request, the billing data may be stored until the objections have been finally clarified or the payment claim has been settled.
(8) If the service provider has factual evidence to be documented that his services are used by certain users with the intention of not paying the fee or not paying them in full, he may disclose the personal data of these users about the end of the usage process and the Use the storage period referred to in paragraph 7 only if this is necessary for the purpose of legal proceedings. The service provider must delete the data immediately if the requirements according to sentence 1 no longer exist or the data is no longer required for legal prosecution. The user concerned must be informed as soon as this is possible without endangering the purpose pursued by the measure.