---
title: § 37 Testing for Absolute Protection Obstacles; Third Party Comments
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-12T22:23:55.921Z
tags: 
---

(1) If the trademark is excluded from registration according to § 3, 8 or 10, the application will be rejected.
(2) If the examination shows that the trademark did not meet the requirements of § 8 (2) nos. 1, 2 or 3 on the filing date (§ 33 (1)), but that the protective obstacle ceased to exist after the filing date, it can the application will not be refused if the applicant agrees that regardless of the original filing date and a priority claimed in accordance with § 34 or § 35, the day on which the obstacle to protection ceases to apply is the filing date and for the determination of the Seniority within the meaning of Section 6 (2) is decisive.
(3) A registration will only be rejected in accordance with § 8 Para. 2 No. 4 or No. 14 if the suitability for deception or bad faith is evident.
(4) A registration will only be rejected in accordance with § 10 if the notoriety of the older trademark is officially known and if the further requirements of § 9 Paragraph 1 No. 1 or 2 are met.
(5) Paragraphs 1 to 4 shall apply mutatis mutandis if the mark is excluded from registration for only a part of the goods or services for which it has been registered.
(6) Natural or legal persons as well as the associations of manufacturers, producers, service providers, retailers and consumers can submit written comments before registering the trademark to the German Patent and Trademark Office in which they explain why the trademark is not ex officio should be entered. The persons and associations can also submit written comments to the German Patent and Trademark Office in which they explain the reasons for which the application for a collective or warranty mark has to be refused. The persons and associations are not involved in the procedure at the German Patent and Trademark Office.