---
title: ยง 8 absolute protective obstacles 
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-12T22:03:03.273Z
tags: 
---

(1) Protectable signs within the meaning of Section 3 are excluded from registration as they are not suitable for being represented in the register in such a way that the competent authorities and the public can clearly and unambiguously determine the subject of protection.
(2) Trademarks are excluded from registration,
1. which lack any distinctive character for the goods or services,
2. that consist exclusively of signs or information that are used to describe the type, quality, quantity, destination, value, geographical origin, time of manufacture of the goods or the provision of services or to describe other characteristics of the goods or can serve services
3. which consist exclusively of signs or information which have become common in common usage or in the fair and constant traffic to describe the goods or services,
4. which are likely to deceive the public, in particular, about the type, nature or geographical origin of the goods or services,
5. who violate public order or morality,
6. contain the national coat of arms, state flags or other national emblems or coat of arms of a domestic place or a domestic community or other local authority association,
7. which contain official test or guarantee marks,
8. which contain coats of arms, flags or other symbols, seals or designations of international intergovernmental organizations,
9. which are excluded from registration under German law, European Union law or international agreements to which the European Union or the Federal Republic of Germany belongs and which protect designations of origin and geographical indications,
10. which are excluded from registration under European Union law or international agreements of which the European Union is a member and which serve to protect traditional names for wines,
11. which are excluded from registration under European Union law or international agreements to which the European Union is a party and which serve to protect traditional specialties,
12. which consist of an earlier variety denomination registered for plant variety rights in accordance with German law, the legal provisions of the European Union or international agreements to which the European Union or the Federal Republic of Germany belongs, or which reflect their essential elements and which refer to plant varieties of the same type or relate closely related species,
13. the use of which can obviously be prohibited according to other regulations in the public interest, or
14. who have been registered in bad faith.

(3) Paragraph 2 Nos. 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply if the mark has prevailed in the relevant public before the decision on registration as a result of its use for the goods or services for which it has been registered has been made .
(4) Paragraph 2 nos. 6, 7 and 8 shall also apply if the brand contains the imitation of a sign listed there. Paragraph 2 nos. 6, 7 and 8 shall not apply if the applicant is authorized to use one of the symbols listed in the trademark, even if it can be confused with another symbol listed there. Paragraph 2 No. 7 shall also not apply if the goods or services for which the trademark has been registered are neither identical nor similar to those for which the test or guarantee mark has been introduced. Paragraph 2 No. 8 shall also not apply if the registered trademark is not suitable to give the public the incorrect impression of a connection with the international intergovernmental organization.