---
title: ยง 1 scope of application of the law
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-13T13:49:12.684Z
tags: 
---

(1) This law applies to the processing of personal data by
1. federal public bodies,
2. public authorities of the federal states, as far as data protection is not regulated by state law and insofar as they
		1. Execute federal law or
		2. act as organs of justice and are not administrative matters.

For non-public bodies, this law applies to the fully or partially automated processing of personal data and the non-automated processing of personal data that are stored or are to be stored in a file system, unless the processing by natural persons is carried out exclusively for personal or family purposes Activities.
(2) Other federal laws on data protection take precedence over the provisions of this law. If you do not or do not conclusively regulate a matter to which this Act applies, the provisions of this Act apply. The obligation to maintain legal confidentiality obligations or professional or special official secrets that are not based on legal regulations remains unaffected.
(3) The provisions of this Act take precedence over those of the Administrative Procedures Act insofar as personal data are processed in the determination of the facts.
(4) This Act applies to public bodies. It applies to non-public places, provided that
1. the controller or processor processes personal data in Germany,
2. the processing of personal data takes place in the context of the activities of a domestic branch of the controller or processor or
3. the controller or processor does not have a branch in a member state of the European Union or in any other contracting state of the Agreement on the European Economic Area, but he is within the scope of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 on the protection of natural persons in the processing of personal data, on the free movement of data and on the repeal of Directive 95/46 / EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 1; L 314, 22.11.2016, p . 72; L 127 from 23.5.2018, p. 2) in the currently applicable version.

If this law does not apply in accordance with sentence 2, only sections 8 to 21, 39 to 44 apply to the person responsible or processor.
(5) The provisions of this Act do not apply insofar as the law of the European Union, in particular Regulation (EU) 2016/679 in the currently applicable version, applies directly.
(6) For processing for purposes in accordance with Article 2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the contracting states to the Agreement on the European Economic Area are equivalent to the Member States of the European Union. In this respect, other countries are considered third countries.
(7) For processing for the purposes of Article 1 (1) of Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purpose of prevention, investigation , Detection or prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of sentences, as well as on the free movement of data and repeal of Council Framework Decision 2008/977 / JHA (OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 89), are responsible for the implementation, application and development of the Schengen -Association with associated countries is equal to that of the Member States of the European Union. In this respect, other countries are considered third countries.
(8) For processing of personal data by public bodies within the scope of activities that do not fall within the scope of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and Directive (EU) 2016/680, Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and Parts 1 and 2 of this law in accordance with application, unless otherwise regulated in this law or any other law.