---
title: § 12 official relationship
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-13T13:57:46.777Z
tags: 
---

(1) The Federal Commissioner has a public official position in accordance with this Act on the Confederation.
(2) The official relationship begins with the delivery of the certificate of appointment. It ends with the expiration of the term of office or with the resignation. At the suggestion of the President of the Bundestag, the Federal President removes the federal commissioner from his office if the federal commissioner has committed a serious misconduct or no longer fulfills the requirements for the performance of his or her duties. In the event of the termination of the official relationship or removal from office, the Federal Commissioner receives a certificate completed by the Federal President. An impeachment becomes effective when the document is handed over. If the official relationship ends at the end of the term of office, the Federal Commissioner is obliged to continue the business at the request of the President of the Bundestag until a successor is appointed for a maximum of six months.
(3) The Chief Official exercises the rights of the Federal Commissioner if the Federal Commissioner is prevented from performing his or her office or if his or her official relationship ends and he or she is not obliged to continue the business is. Section 10 subsection 1 applies accordingly.
(4) The Federal Commissioner receives from the beginning of the calendar month in which the official relationship begins until the end of the calendar month in which the official relationship ends, in the case of paragraph 2 sentence 6 until the end of the month in which the management ends , Official remuneration in the amount of grade B 11 and the family allowance in accordance with Appendix V of the Federal Salary Act. The Federal Travel Expenses Act and the Federal Moving Expenses Act are to be applied accordingly. For the rest, § 12 paragraph 6 as well as §§ 13 to 20 and 21a paragraph 5 of the Federal Ministers Act apply with the proviso that a term of five years takes the place of the four-year term in § 15 paragraph 1 of the Federal Ministers Act. Notwithstanding sentence 3 in conjunction with sections 15 to 17 and section 21a (5) of the Federal Ministers Act, the retirement pension of the federal commissioner is calculated, taking into account the term of office, as a pensionable period of service in the appropriate application of the Civil Service Act, if this is more favorable and the federal commissioner immediately before her or his election to the Federal Commissioner as a civil servant or as a judge, at least in the last office to be performed, usually before reaching grade B 11.