---
title: ยง 13 rights and obligations 
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-13T13:59:22.452Z
tags: 
---

(1) The Federal Commissioner refrains from all acts that are incompatible with the tasks of his or his office and does not perform any other paid or unpaid activity that is incompatible with his or his office during his or her term of office. In particular, in addition to his or her office, the Federal Commissioner may not exercise any other salaried office, trade or profession, nor belong to the management or the supervisory board or board of directors of an acquisition-oriented company, nor a government or a legislative body of the federal or state government. He or she may not provide out-of-court reports for a fee.
(2) The Federal Commissioner must notify the President of the Bundestag of any gifts he or she receives in relation to the office. The President of the Bundestag decides on the use of the gifts. He or she can issue procedural rules.
(3) The Federal Commissioner is entitled to refuse to testify about persons who have entrusted facts to him or her in his or her capacity as Federal Commissioner or Federal Commissioner, as well as those facts. This also applies to the employees of the Federal Commissioner, provided that the Federal Commissioner decides on the exercise of this right. Insofar as the Federal Commissioner's right to refuse to give evidence extends, the submission or delivery of files or other documents may not be required of him or her.
(4) Even after termination of his or her official relationship, the Federal Commissioner is obliged to maintain secrecy about matters that have become officially known to him or her. This does not apply to communications in the course of business or about facts that are obvious or that, according to their meaning, do not require confidentiality. The Federal Commissioner decides at his own discretion whether and to what extent he or he testifies in court or out of court about such matters or makes statements; if he or she is no longer in office, the approval of the acting Federal Commissioner is required. This does not affect the legally justified obligation to report crimes and to uphold them if the free democratic basic order is endangered. Sections 93, 97 and 105 (1), Section 111 (5) in conjunction with Section 105 (1) and Section 116 (1) of the Tax Code do not apply to the Federal Commissioner and his or her employees. Sentence 5 does not apply insofar as the tax authorities require the knowledge to carry out a procedure for a tax crime and a related tax procedure, the pursuit of which is of overriding public interest, or insofar as it is intentionally false information provided by the person obliged to provide information or for she or him acts. If the Federal Commissioner finds a data protection violation, he or she is authorized to report it and to inform the person concerned about it.
(5) The Federal Commissioner may testify as a witness, unless the testimony would
1. cause disadvantages for the good of the federal government or a country, in particular disadvantages for the security of the Federal Republic of Germany or its relations with other states, or
2. Violate fundamental rights.

If the statement concerns ongoing or completed processes that are or could be assigned to the core area of executive personal responsibility of the Federal Government, the Federal Commissioner may only testify in consultation with the Federal Government. Section 28 of the Federal Constitutional Court Act remains unaffected.
(6) Paragraphs 3 and 4 sentences 5 to 7 apply mutatis mutandis to the public authorities responsible for monitoring compliance with data protection regulations in the federal states.