---
title: ยง 21 Application by the supervisory authority for a judicial decision if a decision of the European Commission is assumed to be illegal
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-13T14:05:24.280Z
tags: 
---

(1) If a supervisory authority considers an adequacy decision of the European Commission, a decision on the recognition of standard protection clauses or on the general validity of approved rules of conduct, the validity of which depends on a decision by the supervisory authority, the supervisory authority shall suspend its proceedings and one To apply for a judicial decision.
(2) Administrative procedures are available for procedures under paragraph 1. The Administrative Court Regulations apply in accordance with paragraphs 3 to 6.
(3) The Federal Administrative Court decides on an application by the supervisory authority in accordance with paragraph 1 in the first and last legal remedy.
(4) The supervisory authority is eligible to participate in proceedings under paragraph 1. The supervisory authority is involved as the applicant in a procedure under paragraph 1; Section 63 numbers 3 and 4 of the Administrative Court Regulations remain unaffected. The Federal Administrative Court can give the European Commission the opportunity to comment within a period to be determined.
(5) If a procedure for reviewing the validity of a decision of the European Commission pursuant to paragraph 1 is pending before the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Federal Administrative Court may order that the hearing be suspended until the procedure has been completed before the Court of Justice of the European Union.
(6) In proceedings under paragraph 1, ยง 47 paragraph 5 sentence 1 and paragraph 6 of the Administrative Court Regulations apply accordingly. If the Federal Administrative Court comes to the conclusion that the decision of the European Commission according to paragraph 1 is valid, it will state this in its decision. Otherwise, it submits the question of the validity of the decision under Article 267 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to the Court of Justice of the European Union for decision.