---
title: ยง 26 data processing for employment purposes
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-13T14:20:37.213Z
tags: 
---

(1) Personal data of employees may be processed for the purposes of the employment relationship if this is for the decision on the establishment of an employment relationship or after the establishment of the employment relationship for its implementation or termination or for the exercise or fulfillment resulting from a law or a collective agreement, one Works or service agreement (collective agreement) resulting rights and obligations of the representation of interests of the employees is required. Personal data of employees may only be processed to detect criminal offenses if actual evidence suggests that the suspect has committed a criminal offense in the employment relationship, the processing is necessary for detection and the legitimate interest of the employee in the Exclusion of processing does not predominate, in particular the type and extent are not disproportionate with regard to the occasion.
(2) If the processing of personal data of employees is carried out on the basis of consent, the dependency of the employee on the employment relationship and the circumstances under which the consent was given must be taken into account when assessing the voluntary nature of the consent. Voluntary behavior can exist in particular if a legal or economic advantage is achieved for the employee or if the employer and the employee pursue similar interests. Consent must be given in writing or electronically, unless another form is appropriate due to special circumstances. The employer must inform the employee in writing about the purpose of data processing and their right of withdrawal in accordance with Article 7 (3) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
(3) Notwithstanding Article 9 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the processing of special categories of personal data within the meaning of Article 9 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 is permitted for the purposes of the employment relationship if it is for the exercise of Rights or to fulfill legal obligations arising from labor law, social security and social protection law and there is no reason to believe that the data subject's legitimate interest in the exclusion of processing outweighs. Paragraph 2 also applies to consent to the processing of special categories of personal data; the consent must expressly refer to this data. ยง 22 paragraph 2 applies accordingly.
(4) The processing of personal data, including special categories of personal data of employees for employment purposes, is permitted on the basis of collective agreements. The negotiating partners must observe Article 88 paragraph 2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
(5) The controller must take appropriate measures to ensure that in particular the principles set out in Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 for the processing of personal data are observed.
(6) The participation rights of the employee representatives' interests remain unaffected.
(7) Paragraphs 1 to 6 shall also apply if personal data, including special categories of personal data, are processed by employees without being or should not be saved in a file system.
(8) Employees within the meaning of this law are:
1. Employees, including agency workers in relation to the hirer,
2. employees for their vocational training,
3. Participants in benefits for participation in working life and in clarifications of professional suitability or work trials (rehabilitation students),
4. employed in recognized workshops for disabled people,
5. Volunteers who serve under the Youth Voluntary Service Act or the Federal Voluntary Service Act,
6. Persons who are to be regarded as employee-like persons because of their economic independence; these also include those who work at home and their peers,
7. Federal officials, federal judges, soldiers and community service providers.

Applicants for an employment relationship as well as persons whose employment relationship has ended are considered to be employees.