---
title: ยง 4 video surveillance of publicly accessible rooms
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-13T13:54:49.919Z
tags: 
---

(1) Observation of publicly accessible rooms with optoelectronic devices (video surveillance) is only permitted if they
1. to perform tasks in public bodies,
2. for exercising house rights or
3. to protect legitimate interests for specific purposes

is necessary and there are no indications that the interests of the data subjects worthy of protection outweigh. When monitoring video from
1. publicly accessible large-area facilities, such as in particular sports, meeting and entertainment venues, shopping centers or parking lots, or
2. Vehicles and publicly accessible large-scale facilities for public rail, ship and bus traffic

The protection of life, health or freedom of people staying there is a particularly important interest.
(2) The circumstances of the observation and the name and contact details of the person responsible must be identified by suitable measures at the earliest possible time.
(3) The storage or use of data collected in accordance with paragraph 1 is permitted if it is necessary to achieve the pursued purpose and there are no indications that the interests of the data subjects worthy of protection outweigh. Paragraph 1 sentence 2 applies accordingly. They may only be processed for another purpose if this is necessary to avert threats to state and public security and to prosecute criminal offenses.
(4) If data collected by video surveillance is assigned to a specific person, there is an obligation to inform the data subject about the processing in accordance with Articles 13 and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. Section 32 applies accordingly.
(5) The data are to be deleted immediately if they are no longer required to achieve the purpose or if the interests of the data subjects that are worth protecting conflict with further storage.