---
title: § 40 supervisory authorities of the federal states
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-13T14:34:54.054Z
tags: 
---

§ 40 supervisory authorities of the federal states (BDSG)
(1) The authorities responsible under state law monitor the application of the regulations on data protection in the scope of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 in the non-public sector.
(2) If the controller or processor has several domestic branches, Article 4 (16) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 applies accordingly to the determination of the competent supervisory authority. If several authorities consider themselves responsible or for lack of competence, or if the competence is doubtful for other reasons, the supervisory authorities take the decision jointly in accordance with § 18 Paragraph 2. § 3 Paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Administrative Procedure Act apply accordingly.
(3) The supervisory authority may only process the data it has stored for the purposes of supervision; in doing so, it may transmit data to other supervisory authorities. Processing for another purpose is permitted beyond Article 6 (4) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 if
1. it is obvious that it is in the interest of the data subject and there is no reason to assume that knowing the other purpose, they would refuse their consent,
2. it is necessary to avert significant disadvantages for the common good or a danger to public security or to safeguard significant interests of the common good or
3. it is necessary for the prosecution of criminal offenses or administrative offenses, for the enforcement or execution of penalties or measures within the meaning of Section 11 (1) number 8 of the Criminal Code or for educational measures or means of breeding within the meaning of the Juvenile Court Act or for the enforcement of fines.

If the supervisory authority detects a violation of the data protection regulations, it is authorized to inform the data subjects, to report the violation to other bodies responsible for prosecution or punishment, and to notify the trade supervisory authority about the implementation of commercial law measures in the event of serious violations. Section 13 subsection 4 sentences 4 to 7 apply accordingly.
(4) The bodies subject to supervision and the persons entrusted with their management must provide the supervisory authority with the information necessary for the performance of their duties on request. The party obliged to provide information may refuse to provide information on questions which, if answered, would expose himself or one of the relatives specified in Section 383 (1) numbers 1 to 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure to the risk of criminal prosecution or proceedings under the Administrative Offenses Act. The person obliged to provide information must be informed.
(5) The persons commissioned by a supervisory authority to monitor compliance with data protection regulations are authorized to enter the premises and business premises of the site and to have access to all data processing systems and devices in order to perform their duties. In this respect, the position is obliged to tolerate. § 16 paragraph 4 applies accordingly.
(6) The supervisory authorities advise and support the data protection officer with due regard to their typical needs. You can request the removal of the data protection officer if he or she does not have the specialist knowledge required to perform his or her duties or if there is a serious conflict of interest in the case of Article 38 (6) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
(7) The application of the trade regulations remains unaffected.