---
title: ยง 6 position
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-13T13:55:57.354Z
tags: 
---

(1) The public body ensures that the data protection officer is properly and promptly involved in all questions related to the protection of personal data.
(2) The public body supports the data protection officer or the data protection officer in fulfilling his or her duties in accordance with ยง 7 by providing the resources necessary for the fulfillment of these tasks and access to personal data and processing processes as well as those required to maintain his or her specialist knowledge Provides resources.
(3) The public body ensures that the data protection officer does not receive any instructions regarding the performance of these tasks in the performance of his or her duties. The data protection officer reports directly to the highest management level of the public body. The data protection officer may not be dismissed or discriminated against by the public authority because of the performance of his or her duties.
(4) The dismissal of the data protection officer is only permitted if Article 626 of the Civil Code is applied accordingly. Termination of the employment relationship is not permitted unless there are facts that entitle the public authority to terminate the contract for good cause without observing a notice period. After the end of the activity as data protection officer or data protection officer, termination of the employment relationship is not permitted within one year, unless the public authority is entitled to terminate the contract for good cause without observing a notice period.
(5) Data subjects can consult the data protection officer or the data protection officer on all issues related to the processing of their personal data and the exercise of their rights in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679, this Act and other data protection legislation . The data protection officer is obliged to maintain confidentiality about the identity of the data subject and about circumstances that allow conclusions to be drawn about the data subject, unless the data subject releases him or her.
(6) If the data protection officer becomes aware of data in his or her activity for which the management or a person employed by the public authority has a right to refuse to testify for professional reasons, this right also applies to the data protection officer and him or her subordinate employees. The person who has the right to refuse to testify for professional reasons decides on the exercise of this right, unless this decision cannot be brought about in the foreseeable future. Insofar as the right of the data protection officer to refuse to give evidence extends, his or her files and other documents are subject to a ban on confiscation.