---
title: Art 12 transparent information, communication and modalities for the exercise of the rights of the data subject
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-13T20:46:58.564Z
tags: 
---

(1) The controller shall take appropriate measures to provide the data subject with all information in accordance with Articles 13 and 14 and all communications in accordance with Articles 15 to 22 and Article 34 relating to processing in a precise, transparent, understandable and easily accessible form in one convey clear and simple language; this applies in particular to information that is specifically aimed at children. The information is transmitted in writing or in another form, if necessary also electronically. If requested by the data subject, the information can be given orally, provided that the identity of the data subject has been proven in another form.
(2) The controller shall make it easier for the data subject to exercise their rights in accordance with Articles 15 to 22. 2In the cases referred to in Article 11 paragraph 2, the controller may only refuse on the basis of the data subject's request for the exercise of their rights in accordance with Articles 15 to 22 to act if he can demonstrate that he is unable to identify the person concerned.
(3) The controller shall provide the data subject with information on the measures taken upon application in accordance with Articles 15 to 22 without delay, but in any event within one month of receipt of the application. 2This deadline can be extended by a further two months if this is necessary considering the complexity and the number of applications. 3The person responsible will inform the data subject of an extension of the deadline within one month of receipt of the application, together with the reasons for the delay. 4If the person concerned submits the application electronically, he must be informed electronically if possible, unless he specifies otherwise.
(4) If the controller does not act on the request of the data subject, he shall inform the data subject without delay, but at the latest within one month after receipt of the application, of the reasons for this and of the possibility to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority or to lodge a judicial remedy .
(5) Information in accordance with Articles 13 and 14 as well as all communications and measures in accordance with Articles 15 to 22 and 34 will be provided free of charge. 2If the person concerned is manifestly unfounded or - in particular in the case of frequent repetition - excessive requests, the person responsible can either
1. request a reasonable fee that takes into account the administrative costs of informing or notifying or implementing the action requested, or
2. refuse to act on the application.

The person responsible must provide evidence of the manifestly unfounded or excessive nature of the application.
(6) If the controller has reasonable doubts as to the identity of the natural person who makes the application pursuant to Articles 15 to 21, he may, without prejudice to Article 11, request additional information which is necessary to confirm the identity of the data subject.
(7) The information to be provided to data subjects in accordance with Articles 13 and 14 can be provided in combination with standardized symbols to provide a meaningful overview of the intended processing in an easily perceptible, understandable and clearly understandable form. If the image symbols are displayed in electronic form, they must be machine-readable.
(8) The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 92 to determine the information to be represented by icons and the procedures for the provision of standardized icons.