---
title: Art 37 Appointment of a data protection officer 
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-13T21:50:43.217Z
tags: 
---

(1) The controller and processor will in any case appoint a data protection officer if
1. the processing is carried out by an authority or public body, with the exception of courts, insofar as they act in the context of their judicial activity,
2. the core activity of the controller or processor is to carry out processing operations which, due to their nature, their scope and / or their purposes, require extensive regular and systematic monitoring of data subjects, or
3. the core activity of the controller or processor is the extensive processing of special categories of data in accordance with Article 9 or personal data on criminal convictions and criminal offenses in accordance with Article 10.

(2) A group of companies may appoint a joint data protection officer, provided that the data protection officer can be easily reached from any branch.
(3) If the person responsible or the processor is an authority or public body, a joint data protection officer can be appointed for several such authorities or bodies, taking into account their organizational structure and size.
(4) In cases other than those mentioned in paragraph 1, the controller or processor or associations and other associations representing categories of controller or processor may appoint a data protection officer; if required by Union or Member State law, you must designate one. 2The data protection officer can act for such associations and other associations that represent responsible persons or processors.
(5) The data protection officer is appointed on the basis of his professional qualifications and in particular the expertise he has in the field of data protection law and data protection practice, and on the basis of his ability to perform the tasks specified in Article 39.
(6) The data protection officer can be employed by the controller or the processor or can perform his duties on the basis of a service contract.
(7) The controller or processor processes the contact details of the data protection officer and communicates this data to the supervisory authority.