---
title: Art 38 Position of the data protection officer
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-13T21:52:42.815Z
tags: 
---

(1) The controller and the processor ensure that the data protection officer is properly and early involved in all questions related to the protection of personal data.
(2) The controller and processor will assist the data protection officer in the performance of his or her tasks pursuant to Article 39 by providing the resources necessary for the performance of these tasks and access to personal data and processing, as well as the resources necessary to maintain his or her specialist knowledge.
(3) The controller and the processor ensure that the data protection officer receives no instructions regarding the performance of these tasks when performing his tasks. The data protection officer may not be removed or disadvantaged by the person responsible or the processor due to the fulfillment of his tasks. The data protection officer reports directly to the highest management level of the person responsible or the processor.
(4) Data subjects can consult the data protection officer on all questions related to the processing of their personal data and the exercise of their rights under this Regulation.
(5) The data protection officer is bound by the law of the Union or the Member States in the performance of his duties to maintain confidentiality or confidentiality.
(6) The data protection officer can perform other tasks and duties. The controller or processor ensures that such tasks and obligations do not lead to a conflict of interest.