---
title: ยง 16 Restricted Procedure 
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-14T09:06:48.184Z
tags: 
---

(1) In the case of a restricted procedure, the contracting authority publicly requests an unlimited number of companies to submit applications to participate in a competition. Any interested company can submit an application to participate. With the application to participate, the companies provide the information requested by the contracting authority for the purpose of checking their suitability.
(2) The deadline for receipt of requests to participate (participation deadline) is at least 30 days from the day after the contract notice has been sent.
(3) In the event that adequately justified urgency makes it impossible to meet the deadline for participation, the contracting authority may set a deadline which must not be less than 15 days from the day after the contract notice was sent.
(4) Only those companies that are requested by the contracting authority after checking the information submitted can submit an offer. The contracting authority may limit the number of suitable applicants who are requested to submit an offer in accordance with Section 51.
(5) The offer period is at least 30 days from the day after the invitation to submit the offer has been sent.
(6) With the exception of the highest federal authorities, the contracting authority may determine the offer period by mutual agreement with the applicants who are requested to submit the offer, provided that all applicants are granted the same period for submitting the offers. If the offer period is not mutually agreed, it is at least ten days from the day after the request for the offer has been sent.
(7) In the event that adequately justified urgency makes it impossible to comply with the offer period in accordance with paragraph 5, the contracting authority may set a period which must not be less than ten days from the day following the dispatch of the invitation to tender.
(8) The contracting authority may shorten the offer period in accordance with paragraph 5 by five days if it accepts the electronic transmission of the offers.
(9) ยง 15 paragraph 5 applies accordingly.