---
title: ยง 17 negotiation procedure
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-14T09:09:14.025Z
tags: 
---

(1) In a negotiated procedure with a competition, the contracting authority publicly requests an unlimited number of companies to submit applications to participate in a competition. Any interested company can submit an application to participate. With the application to participate, the companies provide the information requested by the contracting authority for the purpose of checking their suitability.
(2) The deadline for receipt of requests to participate (participation deadline) is at least 30 days from the day after the contract notice has been sent.
(3) In the event that adequately justified urgency makes it impossible to meet the deadline for participation, the contracting authority may set a deadline which must not be less than 15 days from the day after the contract notice was sent.
(4) Only those companies that are requested by the contracting authority after checking the transmitted information can submit an initial offer. The contracting authority may limit the number of suitable applicants who are requested to submit an offer in accordance with Section 51.
(5) In a negotiated procedure without a competition, there is no public invitation to submit applications for participation, but an immediate invitation to submit initial offers to the companies selected by the contracting authority.
(6) The deadline for the receipt of the initial offers is at least 30 days from the day after the request for the offer has been sent.
(7) With the exception of the highest federal authorities, the contracting authority may, by mutual agreement, determine the offer period with the applicants who are requested to submit the offer, provided that all applicants are granted the same period for the submission of offers. If the offer period is not mutually agreed, it is at least ten days from the day after the request for the offer has been sent.
(8) In the event that adequately justified urgency makes it impossible to comply with the offer period in accordance with paragraph 6, the contracting authority may set a period which must not be less than ten days from the day after the invitation to tender has been sent.
(9) The contracting authority may shorten the offer period in accordance with paragraph 6 by five days if it accepts the electronic transmission of the offers.
(10) The contracting authority negotiates with the tenderers about the initial offers submitted by them and all subsequent offers, with the exception of the final offers, with the aim of improving the content of the offers. The entire content of the offer may be negotiated with the exception of the minimum requirements and award criteria specified by the contracting authority in the award documents.
(11) The contracting authority may award the contract on the basis of the initial offers without entering into negotiations if it has reserved this option in the contract notice or in the invitation to confirm interest.
(12) If the contracting authority has indicated this in the contract notice or in the contract documents, it can conduct the negotiations in various successive phases, in order to reduce the number of offers being negotiated based on the specified award criteria. In the final phase of the procedure, there must still be so many offers that competition is guaranteed, provided that there was originally a sufficient number of offers or suitable bidders.
(13) The contracting authority will ensure that all bidders are treated equally in the negotiations. In particular, it refrains from any discriminatory disclosure of information that could favor certain bidders over others. He shall inform all bidders whose offers have not been withdrawn in accordance with paragraph 12 in text form in accordance with Section 126b of the Civil Code about any changes to the specifications, in particular the technical requirements or other components of the tender documents that do not affect the setting of the minimum requirements and award criteria. Following such changes, the contracting authority grants the bidders sufficient time to change their offers and, if necessary, to submit revised offers. The contracting authority may not pass on confidential information of a bidder participating in the negotiations to the other participants without his consent. Such consent must not be given in general, but only in relation to the intended communication of certain information.
(14) If the contracting authority intends to conclude the negotiations, it shall inform the remaining bidders and set a uniform deadline for the submission of new or revised offers. He makes sure that the final offers meet the minimum requirements and decides on the award based on the award criteria.