---
title: ยง 18 Competitive Dialogue
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-14T09:11:12.722Z
tags: 
---

(1) The contracting authority describes its needs and requirements for the service to be procured in the contract notice or the contract documents for conducting a competitive dialogue. At the same time, he names and explains the underlying award criteria and sets a preliminary time frame for the dialogue.
(2) The contracting authority publicly requests an unlimited number of companies to submit applications to participate in a competition. Any interested company can submit an application to participate. With the application to participate, the companies provide the information requested by the contracting authority for the purpose of checking their suitability.
(3) The deadline for receipt of requests to participate is at least 30 days from the day after the contract notice has been sent.
(4) Only those companies that are requested by the contracting authority after checking the information submitted can participate in the dialogue. The contracting authority may limit the number of suitable applicants who are invited to participate in the dialogue in accordance with Section 51.
(5) The contracting authority initiates a dialogue with the selected companies in which it determines and determines how its needs and requirements can best be met. He can discuss all aspects of the order with the selected company. He ensures that all companies are treated equally in the dialogue, does not pass on proposals for solutions or confidential information from one company to the other companies without his consent and only uses them within the framework of the respective award procedure. Such consent must not be given in general, but only in relation to the intended communication of certain information.
(6) The contracting authority may provide that the dialogue be conducted in different successive phases, provided that the contracting authority has indicated this in the contract notice or in the contract documents. In each dialogue phase, the number of solutions to be discussed can be reduced based on the specified award criteria. The contracting authority must inform the companies if their solutions are not intended for the following dialogue phase. In the final phase, there must still be so many solutions that competition is guaranteed, provided that there was originally a sufficient number of solutions or suitable bidders.
(7) The contracting authority closes the dialogue when it has identified the solutions with which the needs and requirements of the service to be procured can be met. The participants remaining in the procedure must be informed of this.
(8) After the dialogue has ended, the contracting authority will ask the companies to submit their final offer based on the solutions submitted and those that will be further developed in the dialogue phase. Tenders must include all the details necessary to complete the project. The contracting authority may request clarifications and additions to these offers. These clarifications or additions must not lead to any fundamental changes in the offer or the public contract, including the needs and requirements specified in the contract notice or the tender documents, if this distorts competition or discriminates against other companies involved in the procedure.
(9) The contracting authority must evaluate the tenders on the basis of the award criteria set out in the contract notice or the contract documents. The contracting authority may negotiate with the company whose offer has been found to be the most economical with the aim of confirming the financial commitments or other conditions contained in the offer, which will be finally laid down in the contract conditions. This must not lead to any fundamental changes in the offer or the public contract, including the needs and requirements set out in the contract notice or the procurement documents, distortion of competition or discrimination against other companies involved in the procedure.
(10) The contracting authority may provide bonuses or payments to the participants in the dialogue.