---
title: ยง 19 Innovation partnership
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-14T09:14:32.328Z
tags: 
---

(1) The contracting authority may enter into an innovation partnership for the award of a public contract with the aim of developing an innovative supply or service and subsequently purchasing it. The procurement needs on which the innovation partnership is based must not be able to be met through the supply or services already available on the market. The contracting authority describes the demand for the innovative delivery or service in the contract notice or the contract documents. It must be specified which elements of this description represent minimum requirements. Suitability criteria must be specified that relate to the skills of companies in the field of research and development as well as the elaboration and implementation of innovative solutions. The information provided must be so precise that companies can identify the type and scope of the solution required and decide whether to apply to participate in the process.
(2) The contracting authority publicly requests an unlimited number of companies to submit applications to participate in a competition. Any interested company can submit an application to participate. With the application to participate, the companies provide the information requested by the contracting authority for the purpose of checking their suitability.
(3) The deadline for receipt of requests to participate is at least 30 days from the day after the contract notice has been sent.
(4) Only those companies that are requested by the contracting authority as a result of an assessment of the information submitted can submit an offer in the form of research and innovation projects. The contracting authority may limit the number of suitable applicants who are requested to submit an offer in accordance with Section 51.
(5) The contracting authority negotiates with the bidders about the initial offers submitted by them and all subsequent offers, with the exception of the final offers, with the aim of improving the content of the offers. The entire content of the contract may be negotiated with the exception of the minimum requirements and award criteria specified by the contracting authority in the contract documents. If the contracting authority has indicated this in the contract notice or in the tender documents, it can conduct the negotiations in various successive phases in order to reduce the number of tenders that are being negotiated based on the specified award criteria.
(6) The contracting authority shall ensure that all bidders are treated equally in the negotiations. In particular, it refrains from any discriminatory disclosure of information that could favor certain bidders over others. He shall inform all bidders whose offers have not been withdrawn in accordance with paragraph 5 in text form in accordance with Section 126b of the Civil Code about any changes to the requirements and other information in the tender documents that do not affect the setting of the minimum requirements. Following such changes, the contracting authority grants the bidders sufficient time to change their offers and, if necessary, to submit revised offers. The contracting authority may not pass on confidential information of a bidder participating in the negotiations to the other participants without his consent. Such consent must not be given in general, but only in relation to the intended communication of certain information. The contracting authority must specify the measures to protect intellectual property in the tender documents.
(7) The innovation partnership is entered into by bidding on offers from one or more bidders. The award of the contract based solely on the lowest price or the lowest costs is excluded. The contracting authority may enter into an innovation partnership with one or more partners who carry out separate research and development activities.
(8) The innovation partnership is structured according to the research and innovation process in two successive phases:
1. a research and development phase involving the production of prototypes or the development of the service, and
2. a service phase in which the service resulting from the partnership is performed.

The phases are to be subdivided by defining intermediate goals, upon reaching which payment of the remuneration is agreed in appropriate installments. The contracting authority ensures that the structure of the partnership and in particular the duration and value of the individual phases reflect the level of innovation of the proposed solution and the sequence of research and innovation activities. The estimated value of the delivery or service may not be disproportionate to the investments required for its development.
(9) On the basis of the interim objectives, the contracting authority can decide at the end of each development phase whether to end the innovation partnership or, in the case of an innovation partnership with several partners, to reduce the number of partners by terminating individual contracts, provided that the contracting authority is in the Contract notice or in the tender documents has indicated that these options exist and under what circumstances they can be used.
(10) After the completion of the research and development phase, the contracting authority is only obliged to subsequently purchase the innovative supply or service if the performance level and the cost limit set when the innovation partnership is entered into are met.