---
title: § 3 Estimation of the order value
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-14T08:36:10.021Z
tags: 
---

(1) When estimating the order value, the expected total value of the intended service without sales tax is to be assumed. Any options or contract extensions must also be taken into account. If the contracting authority provides premiums or payments to the applicant or tenderer, these must also be taken into account.
(2) The choice of method for calculating the estimated contract value may not be made with the intention of circumventing the provisions of Part 4 of the Restriction of Competition Act or this Ordinance. Contracts may not be subdivided in such a way that they do not fall within the scope of the provisions of the Restriction of Competition Act or this Ordinance, unless there are objective reasons for this, for example if an independent organizational unit is independent for its procurement or certain categories of procurement responsible is.
(3) The decisive time for estimating the contract value is the day on which the contract notice is sent or the award procedure is initiated in another way.
(4) The value of a framework agreement or a dynamic procurement system is calculated on the basis of the estimated total value of all individual orders that are planned during the entire term of a framework agreement or a dynamic procurement system.
(5) The value to be taken into account in the case of an innovation partnership corresponds to the estimated total value of the research and development activities that are to take place during all phases of the planned partnership, as well as the construction, supply or services to be developed and at the end of the planned partnership are to be obtained.
(6) When estimating the contract value of construction services, the estimated total value of all deliveries and services that are necessary for the execution of the construction services and are made available by the contracting authority must be taken into account in addition to the contract value of the construction contracts. The possibility for the contracting authority to award contracts for the planning and execution of construction work either separately or jointly remains unaffected.
(7) If the intended construction project or the planned provision of a service can lead to an order that is awarded in several lots, the estimated total value of all lots shall be used. For planning services, this only applies to lots for similar services. If the estimated total value reaches or exceeds the relevant threshold, this regulation applies to the award of each lot.
(8) If a project for the purpose of purchasing similar deliveries can lead to an order that is awarded in several lots, the estimated total value of all lots shall be used.
(9) When awarding individual lots, the contracting authority may deviate from paragraph 7 sentence 3 and paragraph 8 if the estimated net value of the lot in question for deliveries and services is less than 80,000 euros and for construction work is less than 1 million euros and the sum of The net values ​​of these lots do not exceed 20 percent of the total value of all lots.
(10) In the case of regularly recurring orders or standing orders for deliveries or services as well as for delivery or service orders that are to be extended within a certain period, the order value is to be estimated
based on the actual total value of corresponding successive orders from the previous financial year or financial year; any changes in quantities or costs that are likely to occur during the twelve months following the original order should be taken into account, or
based on the estimated total value of successive orders placed during the twelve months following the first delivery or during the financial year or financial year following the first delivery if this is longer than twelve months.
(11) In the case of orders for deliveries or services for which no total price is given, the basis for calculation is the estimated order value
in the case of temporary orders with a term of up to 48 months, the total value for the term of these orders, and
for orders with an indefinite term or with a term of more than 48 months, 48 times the monthly value.
(12) In the case of a planning competition in accordance with Section 69, which should lead to a service contract, the value of the service contract must be estimated plus any prize money and payments to the participants. For all other planning competitions, the contract value corresponds to the sum of the prize money and payments to the participants, including the value of the service contract that could be awarded, insofar as the public contract client does not exclude this award in the competition announcement of the planning competition.