---
title: § 101 right to information 
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-12T21:21:40.075Z
tags: 
---

(1) Anyone who illegally violates copyright or any other right protected under this Act on a commercial basis can be claimed by the injured party for immediate information about the origin and distribution channel of the infringing copies or other products. The commercial scale can result from the number of violations as well as the severity of the violation.
(2) In cases of obvious violation of the law or in cases in which the injured has brought an action against the infringer, the claim exists without prejudice to paragraph 1 against a person who is of a commercial nature
1. had infringing copies in their possession,
2. used infringing services,
3. Services rendered or used for infringing activities
4. was involved in the manufacture, production or distribution of such copies, other products or services according to the information of a person named in number 1, 2 or number 3,

unless, according to §§ 383 to 385 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the person was entitled to refuse to testify in the lawsuit against the infringer. In the event that the claim pursuant to sentence 1 is asserted in court, the court may suspend the litigation pending against the infringer until the settlement of the legal dispute based on the right to information. The person obliged to provide information can demand that the injured person be reimbursed for the expenses required to provide the information.
(3) The person obliged to provide information must provide information on
1. Names and addresses of the manufacturers, suppliers and other previous owners of the copies or other products, the users of the services and the commercial customers and sales outlets for which they were intended, and
2. the quantity of reproductions or other products manufactured, delivered, received or ordered, and the prices paid for the reproductions or other products concerned.

(4) The claims according to paragraphs 1 and 2 are excluded if the claim is disproportionate in individual cases.
(5) If the person obliged to provide information deliberately or through gross negligence is incorrect or incomplete, he is obliged to compensate the injured party for the resulting damage.
(6) Anyone who has provided true information without being obliged to do so under paragraph 1 or paragraph 2 shall only be liable to third parties if they knew that they were not obliged to provide information.
(7) In cases of obvious violation of the law, the obligation to provide information can be ordered by way of an injunction in accordance with Sections 935 to 945 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
(8) The information may only be used in criminal proceedings or proceedings under the Administrative Offenses Act due to an act committed prior to providing information against the obligated party or against a relative referred to in Section 52 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure with the consent of the obligated party .
(9) If the information can only be provided using traffic data (Section 3 No. 30 of the Telecommunications Act), a prior judicial order regarding the admissibility of the use of the traffic data, which the injured party must request, is required to issue it. The district court, in whose district the person obliged to provide information has his domicile, registered office or branch, is solely responsible for issuing this order, regardless of the amount in dispute. The decision is made by the civil chamber. For the procedure, the provisions of the Act on the Procedure in Family Matters and in Matters of Voluntary Jurisdiction apply accordingly. The injured party bears the costs of the judicial order. The appeal against the decision of the regional court is admissible. The complaint must be lodged within two weeks. The regulations for the protection of personal data remain unaffected.
(10) Paragraph 2 in conjunction with paragraph 9 limits the fundamental right of telecommunications secrecy (Article 10 of the Basic Law).