---
title: ยง 32 Adequate remuneration
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-12T20:06:06.565Z
tags: 
---

(1) The author is entitled to the contractually agreed remuneration for granting usage rights and permission to use the work. If the amount of the remuneration is not determined, the appropriate remuneration is deemed to have been agreed. Insofar as the agreed remuneration is not appropriate, the author can request the consent of the contractual partner to amend the contract, by which the author is granted the appropriate remuneration.
(2) A remuneration determined according to a common remuneration rule (Section 36) is appropriate. Incidentally, the remuneration is reasonable if, at the time of the conclusion of the contract, it corresponds to what is customarily and fairly to be done in business dealings in terms of the type and scope of the permitted use, in particular the duration, frequency, extent and time of use, taking all circumstances into account .
(2a) A common remuneration rule can also be used to determine the appropriate remuneration for contracts that were concluded before their period of application.
(3) The contractual partner cannot rely on an agreement that deviates from paragraphs 1 to 2a to the detriment of the author. The provisions referred to in sentence 1 also apply if they are circumvented by other designs. However, the author can grant a simple right of use for everyone free of charge.
(4) The author has no claim under paragraph 1 sentence 3 if the remuneration for the use of his works is determined by collective agreement.