---
title: ยง 32a Further involvement of the author
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-12T20:08:57.984Z
tags: 
---

(1) If the author has granted another right of use to conditions that lead to the fact that the agreed consideration, taking into account the entire relationship of the author to the other, is in a striking disproportion to the income and benefits from the use of the work the other, at the request of the author, is obliged to consent to an amendment to the contract, by which the author is granted a further reasonable participation under the circumstances. It is irrelevant whether the contracting parties have foreseen or could have foreseen the amount of the income or advantages achieved.
(2) If the other has transferred the right of use or granted further rights of use and if the striking mismatch results from the earnings or advantages of a third party, the third party is liable to the author in accordance with paragraph 1, taking into account the contractual relationships in the license chain. The liability of the other party does not apply.
(3) The claims under paragraphs 1 and 2 cannot be waived in advance. The entitlement to this is not subject to enforcement; a disposition over the entitlement is ineffective. However, the author can grant a simple right of use for everyone free of charge.
(4) The author has no claim under paragraph 1 if the remuneration has been determined in accordance with a common remuneration rule (ยง 36) or in a collective agreement and expressly provides for a further appropriate participation in the event of paragraph 1. ยง 32 (2a) applies accordingly.