---
title: ยง 36 Common remuneration rules
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-12T20:53:23.746Z
tags: 
---

(1) In order to determine the appropriateness of remuneration in accordance with ยง 32, associations of authors set up common remuneration rules with associations of work users or individual work users. The common remuneration rules should take into account the circumstances of the respective regulatory area, in particular the structure and size of the users. Regulations contained in collective agreements take precedence over common remuneration rules.
(2) Associations according to paragraph 1 must be representative, independent and empowered to establish common remuneration rules. An association that represents a significant part of the respective author or user of the work is considered authorized within the meaning of sentence 1, unless the members of the association take a contrary decision.
(3) A procedure for setting up common remuneration rules before the arbitration board (ยง 36a) takes place if the parties so agree. The procedure takes place at the written request of one party, if
1. the other party does not begin negotiations on common remuneration rules within three months after a party has requested that negotiations be started in writing,
2. Negotiations on common remuneration rules remain unsuccessful one year after their admission has been requested in writing or
3. one party has finally declared the negotiations to have failed.

(4) The arbitration board must make all parties who have participated in the procedure or who have been requested to participate in accordance with Section 36a (4a) a reasoned proposal for settlement, which contains the content of the common remuneration rules. It is considered accepted if none of the parties mentioned in sentence 1 contradicts within six weeks of receipt of the proposal.