---
title: ยง 41 Right of withdrawal due to non-exercise
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-12T21:01:06.790Z
tags: 
---

(1) If the owner of an exclusive right of use does not exercise the right, or does so only insufficiently, and if the legitimate interests of the author are thereby significantly violated, the author can recall the right of use. This does not apply if the non-exercise or inadequate exercise of the right of use is mainly due to circumstances that the author can reasonably be expected to remedy.
(2) The right of recall cannot be asserted within two years of the granting or transfer of the right of use or, if the work is later delivered, since the delivery. The deadline for a contribution to a newspaper is three months, for a contribution to a magazine that is published monthly or at shorter intervals, six months and for a contribution to other magazines it is one year.
(3) The recall can only be declared after the author has given the holder of the right of use, by announcing the recall, a reasonable grace period for the sufficient exercise of the right of use. The grace period does not need to be determined if the exercise of the right of use is impossible for the holder or is refused by the holder or if the granting of a grace period would endanger the overriding interests of the author.
(4) To the detriment of the author, deviations from paragraphs 1 to 3 can only be made by an agreement based on a common remuneration rule (section 36) or a collective agreement.
(5) The right of use expires when the recall takes effect.
(6) The author must compensate the person concerned if and to the extent that it is fair.
(7) Rights and claims of those involved according to other legal regulations remain unaffected.