---
title: ยง 100 Disruptions to Telecommunication Systems and Misuse of Telecommunication Services
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-13T22:14:40.820Z
tags: 
---

(1) If necessary, the service provider may include the inventory data and traffic data of the participants and users as well as the control data of an information technology protocol for data transmission, which is transmitted regardless of the content of a communication process or stored on the servers involved in the communication process and to ensure communication between the recipient and Transmitters are necessary to collect and use in order to detect, limit or eliminate faults or errors in telecommunications systems. The communication content is not part of the control data of an information technology protocol for data transmission. This also applies to disruptions that can restrict the availability of information and communication services or lead to unauthorized access to users' telecommunications and data processing systems. The data must be deleted immediately as soon as they are no longer required to rectify the fault. Use of the data for other purposes is not permitted. If the data is not automatically collected and used, the company data protection officer must be informed immediately about the procedures and circumstances of the measure. The service provider must report in detail to the company data protection officer, the Federal Network Agency and the federal commissioner for data protection and freedom of information at the end of a quarter about the procedures and circumstances of measures pursuant to sentence 6 during this period. The Federal Network Agency immediately forwards this information to the Federal Office for Information Security. The service provider must notify the person concerned if this can be determined. If control data of an information technology protocol for data transmission were also collected and used as part of a measure according to sentence 1, the reports must at least also contain information on the scope and necessity of the collection and use of the control data of an information technology protocol for data transmission.
(2) The operator of the telecommunication system or his representative is permitted to switch to existing connections to carry out switchovers and to identify and limit faults in the network, insofar as this is required for operational reasons. Any recordings made during activation must be deleted immediately. The activation of the communication participants concerned must be indicated at the same time by an acoustic or other signal and expressly communicated. If this is not technically possible, the company data protection officer must be informed immediately in detail about the procedures and circumstances of each individual measure. This information must be kept at the company data protection officer for two years.
(3) If there are actual indications to be documented for the illegal use of a telecommunications network or service, in particular for a performance slippage or a fraud, the service provider may use the inventory data and traffic data necessary to secure the unlawful use of the telecommunications network to secure its remuneration claim to uncover and prevent it. The service provider may use the traffic data collected in accordance with ยง 96 in such a way that the data of those connections to the network are determined from the total inventory of all traffic data that is not older than six months, for the actual indications of suspicion of unlawful use of telecommunications networks and - establish services. The service provider may form a pseudonymized total database from the traffic data and inventory data according to sentence 1, which provides information about the sales achieved by individual subscribers and, based on suitable criteria, enables those connections to the network to be found which are suspected of being used illegally. The data of other connections must be deleted immediately. The Federal Network Agency and the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection are to be informed immediately of the introduction and modification of a procedure in accordance with sentence 1.
(4) Under the conditions of paragraph 3 sentence 1, the service provider may collect and use control signals in individual cases, insofar as this is essential to clarify and prevent the actions specified there. The collection and use of other news content is not permitted. The Federal Network Agency is to be informed of individual measures pursuant to sentence 1. Those affected must be notified as soon as this is possible without endangering the purpose of the measures.