---
title: § 113 Manual information procedure
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-13T22:19:26.702Z
tags: 
---

(1) Anyone who provides or participates in telecommunications services on a business basis may, in accordance with paragraph 2, use the data collected in accordance with sections 95 and 111 in accordance with this provision to fulfill information obligations towards the bodies mentioned in paragraph 3. This also applies to data by means of which access to end devices or to storage devices which are used in these end devices or spatially separated therefrom is protected. The data to be included in information may also be determined on the basis of an Internet protocol address assigned at a specific point in time; Traffic data may also be evaluated automatically for this purpose. All in-house data sources must be taken into account when providing information in accordance with sentence 3.
(2) The information may only be provided insofar as a body named in paragraph 3 does so in text form in individual cases for the purpose of prosecuting criminal offenses or administrative offenses, to ward off dangers to public security or order or for the fulfillment of the statutory duties of the Paragraph 3 number 3 requires stating a legal provision that allows it to collect the data referred to in paragraph 1; Data pursuant to paragraph 1 may not be transmitted to other public and non-public bodies. In the event of imminent danger, information may also be given if the request is made in a different form. In this case, the request must be confirmed immediately in writing. The bodies named in paragraph 3 are responsible for the admissibility of the request for information.
(3) are positions within the meaning of paragraph 1
1. the authorities responsible for prosecuting crimes or administrative offenses;
2. the authorities responsible for averting threats to public security or order;
3. the constitutional protection authorities of the federal and state governments, the military screening service and the federal intelligence service.

(4) Anyone who provides or participates in business telecommunications services must immediately and completely transmit the data to be disclosed. The parties obliged to maintain confidentiality about the request for information and the provision of information must keep the parties concerned and third parties confidential.
(5) Anyone who provides or participates in telecommunications services on a business basis must take the necessary precautions in his area of ​​responsibility for providing information at his own expense. Anyone who has more than 100,000 customers must have a secure electronic interface in accordance with the Technical Guideline in accordance with Section 110 (3) ready to receive the requests for information and to provide the related information, which also ensures transmission against unauthorized access to the data is guaranteed. Care must be taken to ensure that any request for information is checked by a responsible specialist to ensure that the formal requirements set out in paragraph 2 are met and that further processing of the