---
title: ยง 95 contractual relationships
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-13T22:10:23.435Z
tags: 
---

(1) The service provider may collect and use inventory data insofar as this is necessary to achieve the purpose stated in ยง 3 No. 3. In the context of a contractual relationship with another service provider, the service provider may collect and use inventory data of its subscribers and the subscriber of the other service provider insofar as this is necessary to fulfill the contract between the service providers. Unless this part or another law permits it, the inventory data will only be transmitted to third parties with the consent of the participant.
(2) The service provider may only use the inventory data of the participants mentioned in paragraph 1 sentence 2 for advising the participants, for advertising their own offers, for market research and for informing about an individual conversation request of another user, insofar as this is necessary for these purposes and the participant has consented. A service provider who has legally received knowledge of a subscriber's phone number or postal address, including the electronic address, within the framework of an existing customer relationship may use this to send text or image messages to a telephone or to a postal address for the ones mentioned in sentence 1 Use for purposes unless the participant has objected to such use. The use of the number or address according to sentence 2 is only permitted if the subscriber is clearly visible and good when collecting or storing the number or address for the first time and each time a message is sent to this number or address for one of the purposes specified in sentence 1 It is legibly indicated that he can object to the sending of further messages at any time in writing or electronically.
(3) If the contractual relationship ends, the inventory data must be deleted by the service provider at the end of the calendar year following the termination. Section 35 (3) of the Federal Data Protection Act applies accordingly.
(4) In connection with the establishment and modification of the contractual relationship and the provision of telecommunications services, the service provider may request the presentation of an official ID if this is necessary to check the information provided by the subscriber. The obligation according to ยง 111 paragraph 1 sentence 3 remains unaffected. He can make a copy of the ID. The copy must be destroyed by the service provider immediately after the participant has been provided with the information required to conclude the contract. The service provider may not use any data other than that permitted under paragraph 1.
(5) The provision of telecommunication services may not be made dependent on the participant's consent to the use of their data for other purposes if the participant cannot or cannot reasonably be expected to access these telecommunication services without the consent. Consent given under such circumstances is invalid.