---
title: ยง 96 traffic data
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-13T22:12:19.772Z
tags: 
---

(1) The service provider may collect the following traffic data insofar as this is necessary for the purposes mentioned in this section:
1. the number or identifier of the connections or terminal equipment involved, personal authorization IDs, if customer cards are used, the card number, for mobile connections also the location data,
2. the start and end of the respective connection according to the date and time and, if the charges depend on it, the amount of data transmitted,
3. the telecommunications service used by the user,
4. the end points of committed connections, their start and end according to date and time and, if the charges depend on it, the amount of data transmitted,
5. other traffic data necessary for setting up and maintaining telecommunications and for billing.

This traffic data may only be used insofar as this is necessary for the purposes mentioned in sentence 1 or justified by other legal regulations or for establishing further connections. In addition, traffic data must be deleted by the service provider immediately after the connection is terminated.
(2) Any collection or use of traffic data going beyond paragraph 1 is prohibited.
(3) The service provider may only use subscriber-related traffic data that is used by the provider of a publicly available telecommunications service for the purpose of marketing telecommunications services, for the design of needs-based telecommunications services or for providing services with additional benefits to the extent and within the required period. if the person concerned has consented to this use. The data of the called party must be anonymized immediately. A use of the traffic data by destination number for the purposes mentioned in sentence 1 is only permitted with the consent of the called party. The caller's data must be anonymized immediately.
(4) When obtaining consent, the participant must be informed of the types of data to be processed for the purposes mentioned in paragraph 3 sentence 1 and how long they should be stored. In addition, the participant must be informed that they can withdraw their consent at any time.