---
title: ยง 98 location data 
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-13T22:13:22.836Z
tags: 
---

(1) Location data used in relation to the users of public telecommunications networks or publicly accessible telecommunications services may only be processed to the extent necessary for the provision of services with additional benefits and within the required time period if they have been anonymized or if the subscriber has told them Provider of the service with additional benefits has given his consent. In these cases, the provider of the service with additional benefit must inform the user each time the location of the mobile radio terminal is ascertained by means of a text message to the terminal whose location data has been determined. This does not apply if the location is only displayed on the device whose location data has been determined. If the location data is processed for a service with additional benefit, which involves the transmission of location data of a mobile terminal to another subscriber or third parties who are not providers of the service with additional benefit, the subscriber must expressly, separately and in accordance with ยง 94, his consent in writing to the provider of the service with additional benefits. In this case, the obligation according to sentence 2 applies accordingly to the provider of the service with additional benefits. The provider of the service with additional benefit may use the necessary inventory data to fulfill his obligation from sentence 2. The participant must inform co-users of the consent given. Consent can be withdrawn at any time.
(2) If the participants have given their consent to the processing of location data, they must continue to be able to temporarily and temporarily prohibit the processing of such data for every connection to the network or for every transmission of a message free of charge.
(3) For connections to connections that can be reached under emergency numbers 112 or 110 or telephone numbers 124 124 or 116 117, the service provider must ensure that the transmission of location data is not excluded in individual cases or permanently.
(4) The processing of location data in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2 must be limited to the extent necessary for the provision of the service with additional benefit and to persons who are on behalf of the operator of the public telecommunications network or publicly accessible telecommunications service or the third party who provides the service offers with additional benefits, act.