---
title: ยง 271a Agreements on payment, review or acceptance periods
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-21T16:23:59.520Z
tags: 
---


(1) An agreement, according to which the creditor can only request payment of a fee after more than 60 days after receipt of the consideration, is only effective if it has been expressly made and is not grossly unreasonable with regard to the interests of the creditor. If the debtor receives an invoice or equivalent payment schedule after receipt of the consideration, the time of receipt of this invoice or payment schedule replaces the time of receipt of the consideration stated in sentence 1. Until another time is proven, it is assumed that the time of receipt of the invoice or payment schedule coincides with the time of receipt of the consideration; if the creditor has specified a later point in time, this will take the place of the time at which the consideration is received.
(2) If the debtor is a contracting authority within the meaning of [ยง 99](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/99) numbers 1 to 3 of the Act against Restraints of Competition, the difference to paragraph 1 is
1. an agreement, according to which the creditor can only demand payment of a fee after more than 30 days after receipt of the consideration, is only effective if the agreement has been expressly made and is objectively justified due to the special nature or characteristics of the contractual relationship;
2. an agreement according to which the creditor can only request payment of a fee after more than 60 days after receipt of the consideration is invalid.

Paragraph 1 sentences 2 and 3 apply accordingly.
(3) If a claim for payment is only to be fulfilled after the consideration or acceptance of the consideration, an agreement according to which the time for the inspection or acceptance of the consideration is more than 30 days after receipt of the consideration is only effective if it has been expressly made and with regard to the creditor's concerns are not grossly unfair.
(4) If an agreement according to paragraphs 1 to 3 is ineffective, the contract remains effective.
(5) Paragraphs 1 to 3 do not apply to
1. the agreement of installments and other installments and
2. a contractual obligation from which a consumer owes the payment.

(6) Paragraphs 1 to 3 are without prejudice to other provisions that result in restrictions for agreements on payment, inspection or acceptance periods.

