---
title: § 310 area of ​​application
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-21T19:55:51.481Z
tags: 
---

(1) [§ 305](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/305) subsections 2 and 3, [§ 308](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/308) numbers 1, 2 to 8 and section 309 do not apply to general terms and conditions that are used against an entrepreneur, a legal entity under public law or a special fund under public law. [§ 307](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/307) (1) and (2) also apply in the cases of sentence 1 insofar as this leads to the ineffectiveness of contractual provisions specified in [§ 308](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/308) numbers 1, 2 to 8 and [§ 309](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/309); Appropriate consideration must be given to the customs and practices applicable in trade. In the cases of sentence 1, [§ 307](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/307) paragraphs 1 and 2 and [§ 308](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/309) numbers 1a and 1b refer to contracts in which the award and contract regulations for construction work Part B (VOB / B) in the version applicable at the time of the conclusion of the contract without content Total deviations are included, with regard to a content control of individual provisions no application.
(2) §§ [308](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/308) and [309](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/309) do not apply to contracts of the electricity, gas, district heating and water supply companies for the supply of special customers with electrical energy, gas, district heating and water from the supply network, insofar as the supply conditions do not adversely affect the buyers of regulations deviate from general conditions for the supply of tariff customers with electrical energy, gas, district heating and water. Sentence 1 applies accordingly to contracts for the disposal of waste water.
(3) For contracts between an entrepreneur and a consumer (consumer contracts), the provisions of this section apply with the following requirements:
1. General terms and conditions are deemed to be provided by the entrepreneur, unless they have been introduced into the contract by the consumer;
2. [§ 305c](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/305c) (2) and Sections [306](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/306) and [307](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/307) to [309](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/309) of this Act as well as Article 46b of the Introductory Act to the Civil Code apply to pre-formulated contractual terms even if they are only intended for one-time use and insofar as the consumer is based on the pre-formulated on theirs Content could not influence;
3. the circumstances accompanying the conclusion of the contract must also be taken into account when assessing the inadequate disadvantage in accordance with section [307](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/307) (1) and (2).

(4) This section does not apply to contracts in the field of inheritance, family and company law, as well as to collective agreements, company and service agreements. When applying to employment contracts, the peculiarities of labor law must be adequately taken into account; Section [305](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/305) paras. 2 and 3 does not apply. Collective agreements, company and service agreements are equivalent to legal provisions within the meaning of § [307](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/307) (3).
