---
title: § 312a General obligations and principles in consumer contracts; Limits to the agreement of charges
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-21T16:04:39.218Z
tags: 
---

(1) If the entrepreneur or a person acting on his behalf or on behalf of the consumer calls to conclude a contract with the consumer, the caller has his identity at the beginning of the conversation and, if applicable, the identity of the person for whom he is calling, as well as the disclose the business purpose of the call.
(2) The entrepreneur is obliged to inform the consumer in accordance with [Article 246](/laws_and_regulations/EGBGB/246) of the Introductory Act to the Civil Code. The entrepreneur can only demand freight, delivery or shipping costs and other costs from the consumer insofar as he has informed the consumer about these costs in accordance with the requirements of [Article 246](/laws_and_regulations/EGBGB/246) paragraph 1 number 3 of the Introductory Act to the Civil Code. §§ 1 and 2 shall not apply to contracts concluded outside of business premises, nor to distance contracts, nor to contracts for financial services.
(3) An entrepreneur can only make an agreement with a consumer that is directed towards a payment that goes beyond the agreed fee for the main service. If the entrepreneur and the consumer conclude a contract in electronic commerce, such an agreement only becomes part of the contract if the entrepreneur does not bring about the agreement by default.
(4) An agreement by which a consumer is obliged to pay a fee for using a certain means of payment to fulfill his contractual obligations is ineffective if
1. there is no common and reasonable free payment option for the consumer or
2. the agreed remuneration goes beyond the costs incurred by the entrepreneur through the use of the means of payment.

(5) An agreement that obliges a consumer to pay a fee for the consumer to call the entrepreneur for questions or explanations about a contract between them about a number that the entrepreneur has available for such purposes is ineffective if the agreed Fee exceeds the fee for the mere use of the telecommunications service. If an agreement according to [§ 1](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/1) is ineffective, the consumer is also not obliged to the provider of the telecommunications service to pay a fee for the call. The provider of the telecommunications service is entitled to demand the fee for the mere use of the telecommunications service from the entrepreneur who has concluded the ineffective agreement with the consumer.
(6) If an agreement according to paragraphs 3 to 5 has not become part of the contract or is ineffective, the contract remains effective.
