---
title: § 326 Exemption from consideration and withdrawal when the obligation to perform is excluded
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-06T18:49:30.264Z
tags: 
---

(1) If the debtor does not have to make payments pursuant to § 275 (1) to (3), the claim to the consideration is void; in the case of a partial service, § 441 (3) applies accordingly. Sentence 1 does not apply if the debtor does not have to provide supplementary performance in accordance with §§ 275 (1) to (3) in the event of non-contractual performance.
(2) If the creditor is solely or largely responsible for the circumstance on the basis of which the debtor does not have to perform in accordance with § 275 (1) to (3), or this circumstance for which the debtor is not responsible occurs at a time when the creditor is in default acceptance, the debtor retains the right to the consideration. However, he must have the credit for what he saves as a result of the exemption from the service or which he or she maliciously fails to acquire through other uses of his workforce.
(3) If the creditor requests surrender of the replacement for the object owed or assignment of the claim for compensation according to § 285, he remains obliged to pay the consideration. However, this is reduced in accordance with § 441 (3) insofar as the value of the replacement or the claim for compensation lags behind the value of the service owed.
(4) Insofar as the consideration not owed under this provision has been effected, the services rendered can be reclaimed in accordance with §§ 346 to 348.
(5) If the debtor does not have to make payments pursuant to § 275 (1) to (3), the creditor can withdraw; § 323 applies accordingly to the resignation with the proviso that the deadline is not necessary.
