---
title: § 357 Legal consequences of the cancellation of contracts concluded outside of business premises and distance selling contracts with the exception of contracts for financial services
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-08T21:31:18.829Z
tags: 
---

(1) § 357 Legal consequences of the cancellation of contracts concluded outside of business premises and distance selling contracts with the exception of contracts for financial services BGB
(2) The entrepreneur must also return any payments made by the consumer for the delivery. This does not apply if the consumer incurs additional costs because he has opted for a different type of delivery than the cheapest standard delivery offered by the entrepreneur.
(3) For the repayment, the entrepreneur must use the same means of payment that the consumer used for the payment. Sentence 1 does not apply if something else has been expressly agreed and this does not incur any costs for the consumer.
(4) In the case of a consumer goods purchase, the entrepreneur can refuse repayment until he has received the goods back or until the consumer has provided evidence that he has sent the goods. This does not apply if the entrepreneur has offered to collect the goods.
(5) The consumer is not obliged to return the goods received if the entrepreneur has offered to collect the goods.
(6) The consumer bears the direct costs of returning the goods if the entrepreneur has informed the consumer of this obligation in accordance with Article 246a § 1 paragraph 2 sentence 1 number 2 of the Introductory Act to the Civil Code. Sentence 1 does not apply if the entrepreneur has agreed to bear these costs. In the case of contracts concluded outside of business premises, in which the goods were delivered to the consumer's apartment at the time the contract was concluded, the entrepreneur is obliged to collect the goods at his own expense if the goods are such that they cannot be returned by post.
(7) The consumer has to compensate for a loss in value of the goods, if
1. the loss in value is attributable to handling the goods that was not necessary to check the nature, properties and functioning of the goods, and
2. the entrepreneur has informed the consumer of his right of withdrawal in accordance with Article 246a § 1 paragraph 2 sentence 1 number 1 of the Introductory Act to the Civil Code.

(8) If the consumer withdraws a contract for the provision of services or for the supply of water, gas or electricity in undefined quantities or unlimited volume or for the supply of district heating, the consumer owes the entrepreneur compensation for the service provided until the withdrawal, if the consumer has expressly requested that the entrepreneur start the service before the cancellation period expires. The claim from sentence 1 only exists if the entrepreneur has properly informed the consumer in accordance with Article 246a § 1 paragraph 2 sentence 1 numbers 1 and 3 of the Introductory Act to the Civil Code. In the case of contracts concluded outside of business premises, the claim according to sentence 1 only exists if the consumer has transmitted his request according to sentence 1 on a permanent data carrier. The agreed total price is to be used as the basis for calculating the value replacement. If the agreed total price is disproportionately high, the value replacement must be calculated on the basis of the market value of the service rendered.
(9) If the consumer revokes a contract for the delivery of digital content that is not on a physical data medium, he has no value to pay.
