---
title: ยง 357a legal consequences of the cancellation of contracts for financial services
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-08T21:36:57.604Z
tags: 
---

(1) The services received must be returned after 30 days at the latest.
(2) In the event of revocation of contracts concluded outside of business premises or distance selling contracts for financial services, the consumer is obliged to pay compensation for the service provided by the entrepreneur until the revocation if he
1. has been advised of this legal consequence before submitting his contractual declaration and
2. has expressly agreed that the entrepreneur begins to perform the service before the end of the cancellation period.

In the event of the revocation of contracts for financial aid that are subject to the exception of Section 506 (4), Section 357 (5) to (8) also apply accordingly. If the subject of the financial assistance contract is the delivery of digital content that is not on a physical data carrier, the consumer must pay compensation for the digital content delivered until the revocation if he

3. has been advised of this legal consequence before submitting his contractual declaration and
4. has expressly agreed that the entrepreneur begins to deliver the digital content before the end of the cancellation period.

If a consideration is specified in the contract, it is to be used as the basis for the calculation of the value replacement. If the agreed total price is disproportionately high, the value replacement must be calculated on the basis of the market value of the service rendered.

(3) In the event that consumer loan contracts are withdrawn, the borrower must pay the agreed debit interest for the period between the payment and the repayment of the loan. With a consumer real estate loan, it can be demonstrated that the value of the benefit in use was lower than the agreed borrowing rate. In this case, only the lower amount is owed. In the event of the revocation of contracts for financial aid that are not covered by the exception to Section 506 (4), Section 2 also applies with the proviso that instead of the information on the right of withdrawal, the mandatory information in accordance with Article 247 Section 12 Paragraph 1 in conjunction with ยง 6 paragraph 2 of the Introductory Act to the Civil Code, which concern the right of withdrawal. In addition, the borrower only has to reimburse the lender for the expenses that the lender has incurred for public bodies and cannot be returned.
