---
title: § 475 Applicable regulations 
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-08T21:48:44.646Z
tags: 
---

(1) If a time for the services to be provided in accordance with section 433 is neither determined nor can it be inferred from the circumstances, the obligee can only request these services immediately in deviation from section 271 (1). In this case, the entrepreneur must hand over the item no later than 30 days after the contract is concluded. The contracting parties can effect the services immediately.
(2) § 447 (1) applies with the proviso that the risk of accidental loss and accidental deterioration only passes to the buyer if the buyer has commissioned the freight forwarder, the carrier or the person or institution otherwise responsible for carrying out the shipment and the entrepreneur has not previously named this person or institution to the buyer.
(3) § 439 paragraph 5 applies with the proviso that uses are not to be surrendered or replaced by their value. Sections 445 and 447 paragraph 2 do not apply.
(4) If one type of supplementary performance is excluded according to § 275 paragraph 1 or if the entrepreneur can refuse this according to § 275 paragraph 2 or 3 or § 439 paragraph 4 sentence 1, he cannot do the other type of supplementary performance due to the proportionality of the costs according to § 439 paragraph 4 Refuse sentence 1. If the other type of supplementary performance is disproportionate due to the amount of the expenses according to § 439 paragraph 2 or paragraph 3 sentence 1, the entrepreneur can limit the reimbursement of expenses to a reasonable amount. When measuring this amount, the value of the item in a defect-free condition and the importance of the defect must be taken into account.
(5) § 440 sentence 1 shall also apply in cases in which the seller restricts subsequent performance in accordance with paragraph 4 sentence 2.
(6) The consumer can demand advance payment from the entrepreneur for expenses incurred in connection with the supplementary performance according to § 439 paragraph 2 and 3 and which are to be borne by the entrepreneur.
