---
title: § 492 written form, contract content
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-21T15:45:39.950Z
tags: 
---

(1) Unless a stricter form is prescribed, consumer loan contracts must be concluded in writing. The written form is sufficient if the application and acceptance are declared separately in writing by the contracting parties. The lender's declaration does not require signature if it is created using an automated facility.
(2) The contract must contain the information required for the consumer loan contract in accordance with [Article 247](/laws_and_regulations/EGBGB/247) § 6 to 13 of the Introductory Act to the Civil Code.
(3) After the conclusion of the contract, the lender provides the borrower with a copy of the contract. If a time for repayment of the loan is determined, the borrower can at any time request a repayment schedule from the lender in accordance with [Article 247](/laws_and_regulations/EGBGB/247) § 14 of the Introductory Act to the Civil Code.
(4) Paragraphs 1 and 2 also apply to the power of attorney granted by a borrower to conclude a consumer loan contract. Sentence 1 does not apply to the power of attorney and a power of attorney that is notarized.
(5) Declarations by the lender that are to be made to the borrower after the contract has been concluded must be made on a durable medium.
(6) If the contract does not contain the information in accordance with paragraph 2 or does not contain it completely, it can be made up on a durable medium after the contract has been concluded or in the cases of [§ 494](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/494) paragraph 2 sentence 1 after the contract has become valid. If the lack of information in accordance with paragraph 2 has led to changes in the contractual terms in accordance with [§ 494](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/494) (2) sentence 2 to paragraph 6, the information can only be made up for if the borrower receives the copy of the contract required in accordance with [§ 494](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/494)  (7). In other cases, the borrower must receive one of the documents specified in [$ 356b](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/356) (1) at the latest when the information is collected. When the information according to paragraph 2 is made up, the borrower must be informed on a durable medium that the cancellation period begins one month after receipt of the information obtained.
(7) The agreement of a variable borrowing rate, which is based on an index or reference interest rate, is only effective if the index or reference interest rate is objective, clearly defined and available and verifiable for lenders and borrowers.
