---
title: § 543 Extraordinary termination without notice for an important reason
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-21T16:34:57.609Z
tags: 
---

(1) Each contracting party can terminate the lease for an important reason without notice. There is an important reason if the terminating party cannot be expected to continue the tenancy until the notice period has expired or until the tenancy has otherwise ended, taking into account all the circumstances of the individual case, in particular the fault of the contracting parties, and taking the interests of both parties into account.
(2) An important reason is in particular if
1. the tenant is not granted or withdrawn in full or in part from the contractual use of the rented property in good time,
2. the tenant violates the rights of the landlord to a significant extent by endangering the rented property by neglecting the due diligence or relinquishing it to a third party without authorization or
3. the tenant
		1. is in arrears for two consecutive dates with payment of the rent or a not inconsiderable part of the rent
		2. is in arrears with payment of the amount of an amount that reaches the rent for two months in a period spanning more than two dates.
    
In the case of sentence 1 No. 3, termination is excluded if the landlord is satisfied beforehand. It becomes ineffective if the tenant has been able to free himself from his debt by offsetting and declares offsetting immediately after the termination.
(3) If the important reason is the violation of an obligation from the rental agreement, the termination is only permitted after the unsuccessful expiry of a reasonable period of time to remedy the situation or after unsuccessful warning. This does not apply if
1. a deadline or warning obviously does not promise success
2. immediate termination is justified for special reasons, taking into account the mutual interests, or
3. the tenant is in arrears with the payment of the rent within the meaning of paragraph 2 No. 3.

(4) §§ [536b](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/536b) and [536d](/laws_and_regulations/BGB/536b) apply mutatis mutandis to the tenant's right of termination pursuant to subsection 2 number 1. If it is disputed whether the landlord granted the use of the rented property in good time or whether the remedy was brought about before the specified period, the burden of proof rests with him.
