---
title: ยง 622 notice periods for employment relationships
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-06T20:20:48.045Z
tags: 
---

(1) The employment relationship of a worker or an employee (worker) can be terminated with a notice period of four weeks to the fifteenth or to the end of a calendar month.
(2) For termination by the employer, the notice period is if the employment relationship in the company or company
1. existed for two years, one month to the end of a calendar month,
2. five years, two months to the end of a calendar month,
3. lasted eight years, three months to the end of a calendar month,
4. existed for ten years, four months to the end of a calendar month,
5. lasted twelve years, five months to the end of a calendar month,
6. Existed for 15 years, six months to the end of a calendar month,
7. Has existed for 20 years, seven months to the end of a calendar month.

(3) During an agreed trial period, for a maximum of six months, the employment relationship can be terminated with a notice period of two weeks.
(4) Regulations deviating from paragraphs 1 to 3 can be agreed by collective agreement. Within the scope of such a collective agreement, the different collective agreement provisions between non-collective employers and employees apply if their application has been agreed between them.
(5) In individual contracts, a shorter notice period than that specified in paragraph 1 can only be agreed if
1. if an employee is employed as a temporary worker; this does not apply if the employment relationship continues beyond the period of three months;
2. if the employer generally employs no more than 20 workers exclusively for those employed in their vocational training and the notice period is not less than four weeks.

When determining the number of employees, part-time employees with regular weekly working hours of no more than 20 hours at 0.5 and no more than 30 hours at 0.75 must be taken into account. The individual contractual agreement longer than the notice periods specified in paragraphs 1 to 3 remains unaffected.
(6) No longer period may be agreed for the termination of the employment relationship by the employee than for the termination by the employer.
