---
title: § 675d Information for payment services
description: 
published: true
date: 2020-07-08T22:15:33.339Z
tags: 
---

(1) Payment service providers have to inform payment service users in the provision of payment services in the form provided for in Article 248 §§ 1 to 12, 13 paragraph 1, 3 to 5 and §§ 14 to 16 of the Introductory Act to the Civil Code.
(2) Payment initiation service providers have to inform payers only about the circumstances specified in Article 248 § 13 paragraphs 1 to 3 and § 13a of the Introductory Act to the Civil Code in the form provided for in Article 248 §§ 2 and 12 of the Introductory Act to the Civil Code. Account information service providers must inform payment service users of the circumstances specified in Article 248 §§ 4 and 13 paragraph 1 of the Introductory Act to the Civil Code; they can agree the form and timing of the information with the payment service user.
(3) If the proper information is in dispute, the burden of proof rests with the payment service provider.
(4) The payment service provider may only agree a fee for the information with the payment service user if the information is provided at the request of the payment service user and the payment service provider
1. provides this information more often than provided for in Article 248 §§ 1 to 16 of the Introductory Act to the Civil Code,
2. provides information that goes beyond that prescribed in Article 248 §§ 1 to 16 of the Introductory Act to the Civil Code, or
3. provides this information using other means of communication than those agreed in the payment service agreement.

The fee must be reasonable and based on the actual costs of the payment service provider.
(5) Payees, service providers who provide cash withdrawal services and third parties provide information about the circumstances set out in Article 248 §§ 17 to 18 of the Introductory Act to the Civil Code. The payer is only obliged to pay the fees pursuant to Article 248 § 17 Paragraph 2 and § 18 of the Introductory Act to the Civil Code if the full amount has been announced before the payment process is triggered.
(6) Paragraphs 1 to 5 do not apply to
1. the components of a payment transaction that take place outside the European Economic Area if
		1. the payment process is in the currency of a country outside the European Economic Area and both the payer's payment service provider and the payee's payment service provider are within the European Economic Area or
		2. if several payment service providers are involved in the payment process, at least one of these payment service providers is located within and at least one outside the European Economic Area;
2. Payment transactions in which none of the participating payment service providers is located within the European Economic Area.

In the cases of sentence 1 number 1, the information obligations under Article 248 § 4 paragraph 1 number 2 letter e, § 6 number 1 and § 13 paragraph 1 sentence 1 number 2 of the Introductory Act to the Civil Code also apply to the components made within the European Economic Area not apply to the payment process. The same applies in the case of sentence 1 number 1 letter b for the duty to provide information in accordance with Article 248 § 4 paragraph 1 number 5 letter g of the Introductory Act to the Civil Code.
